# RelicDensity
The Universe was very hot immediately after the big bang. At this time 
most particles were at thermal equilibrium, i.e. their density is a 
function of mass and temperature alone (glancing over some details). 
As the universe cools down, the density decreases as long as the particle
is still in contact to the thermal bath. Once the contact is weak enough 
and canâ€™t keep up to the thermal bath, the density departs from its 
equilibrium distribution and stops declining. That way the field 
corresponding to the particles may freeze out at this temperature. The 
part that is left is called the relic density. As the coupling constant 
increases, the particles keep in touch with the thermal bath for longer, 
decreasing the relic density.
Since the total dark matter content of the universe is known to be 
\Lambda h \approx 0.12 this mechanism can be used to create a lower 
bound on the coupling constant IF the relic is created by the freeze out
mechanism. 
The expansion and possible freeze out of these fields can be described 
by one form of the Boltzmann equation, i.e. a differential equation with 
ingredients such as the thermally averaged interaction cross-section. 
After the calculation of this average by simple numerical integration, 
the differential equation could be tackled. Here I compared the Euler 
method to the methods implemented in the GNU-Scientific-Library since 
both had their problems achieving a stable solution. 
